---
layout: post
title: "People and Practice Manager: The Journey"
date: 2019-07-20 12:0:00 +0200
categories: culture
author_names: [ "Álvaro Nistal Valbuena", "Björn Zapadlo" ]
author_urls : [ "author/alvaronistalvalbuena/", "author/arturszott/" ]
author_avatars: [ "alvaronistalvalbuena", "arturszott" ]
read_time : 5
excerpt: 
feature_image: 


---

- [ ] Title
- [ ] Intro
- [ ] Who are we? (Björn & Álvaro)
- [ ] HolidayCheck's biggest Orga change
  - [ ] The idea (Björn)
  - [ ] First steps (Björn)
  - [ ] Application time! (Álvaro & Björn) // interview + leadership assessment
  - [ ] Habemus PPMs (Björn & Álvaro)
- [ ] The beginning
  - [ ] Workshop: first get-together and choosing practices (Álvaro)
  - [ ] Teams distribution/Marketplace (Björn) with video presentations (Álvaro)
  - [ ] Launch and Offsite (Álvaro)
- [ ] 400 days as a PPM (Álvaro)
  - [ ] Learning the hard way
  - [ ] Ups and downs
  - [ ] Finding new passions
- [ ] Where we are heading to (Björn)

...

Two years ago a process started at HolidayCheck that changed our IT organisation as we knew it before. One ambitious idea, various refinements, an internal recruiting process, some . In the next lines, we will describe you with two voices why and how this all happened and the challenges we 

I am one of them and this is how my life has changed during the last 400 days.

But first of all, let's check some of the background.

## Who are we?

To preface, who are we and why are we talking about this? 

Álvaro: 

I am a Frontend Developer with a big passion: creating visually attractive products that impacts the user so much, that they will not forget it so easily. I have always loved to work closely with the product owners and designers and bringing our ideas live. I have been working five years at HolidayCheck (with a three years break, immersed on an entrepreneur-adventure) and embraced the challenge of becoming a People (and Practice) Manager a little bit more than a yer ago. Working with my people, discussing with them, finding together the right path, looking for the hidden potential and motivating them and everyone around me have become my new passion.

But my even bigger passion is at home: almost at the same time I got a team at work, my son was born. I like to say that, almost simultaneously, I got a new family at home and in the office, two new worlds to discover at once.

Björn:

## HolidayCheck's biggest Orga change 

### The idea

At the end of 2017, our CTO and the two Heads of Technology at that time started to think how to improve the IT organisation to solve some of the challenges they were facing: 

- 30 developers were reporting to one person, what was overwhelming
- the developer did not feel heard and recognised for the great work she/he was doing
- being developers from three different locations did not help to the vision of one IT

So they decided to address these points by investing in the the best we have at HolidayCheck: the people. The goal was to find 8 to 10 developers in-house that were willing to take the challenge to become (partly) people managers. They should not just be the classic People Manager but something different: PPMs. 

### First steps

As with every other internal recruiting process, surely the first step was defining the role and that was not easy. There were some factors that would define this position:

- become a strong team by virtaully joining people from different locations (focusing on remote collaboration)
- form groups of developers with similar interests around the PPM-to-be's passion
- keeping 50% of hands-on, both to not to lose touch with what we love and leaving the door open for a stepping back to being a 100% developer again
- 

After having the first clear idea, a verbose role description draft and some refinements through several meetings with all of us, the application time started. It was the moment for us to decide, if we are up to the next chapter in our (working) life.

### Application time!

Álvaro

From the first moment I heard about the possibility of becoming a PPM, I felt intrigued. It has never been easy for me to make quick decisions and this one was going to change my career path as none did before. My gut feeling told me this was a train I could not miss and I jumped with the eyes closed and the mind open. Becoming a Team Lead was always one of my mid/long-term goals and I could not imagine a better opportunity: a safe environment (after many years at HolidayCheck, knowing the company and my colleagues), the possibility to keep doing what I knew I was good at and the idea of growing together with a group of developers in this new role. So, one of the last days before the deadline, I talked to Björn and made my decision official. Now I only had to make it through the internal recruiting phase. 

This process involved two different interviews:

- one interview with Björn, as Head of Technology and the one that would be our direct manager. This one was focused on the technical and the practice part of the new role. We talked about his vision and how I thought I could be a perfect match for one of those open positions, my view on the current state of the IT environment at HolidayCheck, the practice I would choose (and how I would design it) and how I imagine the first months as PPM.
- one leadership assessment (with our CTO and the People.Team), since the role I was applying for included people management. In this second interview I could explain the reasons I had to accept the challenge, the experiences I already had as a team lead, how I would react to different situations I could encounter or how I thought I could help others to unleash their potential in this new position.

Interesting for me at that time is that we got a list of questions we would be asked previous to the interviews, so we could prepare them in advance. That, and knowing the people I was going to talk to, made me feel acutally quite confident before and during both talks.

### Habemus PPMs

Björn: ? 

Álvaro: 

I can picture still the moment when I got the email announcing that I was one of the 9 chosen PPMs. Four days before my 35th birthday, I was at the Biergarten Hafenhalle in Konstanz. So finding a way to celebrate the news was not too difficult! Prost!





